Okay, so now,
let's get back to our quiz file.
Okay, earlier we were working through
our quiz starter HTML document or
two JS quiz starter HTML document.
And we had worked through a whole bunch
of to-dos in the comments here and
the code comments we've gone
through TODOs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
We had written some functions, and
now we've got the homestretch.
The rest of the TODOs
are right in front of us.
So, what we're gonna do now is work
through these TODOs 6, 7, and 8.
And in order to do that we're
gonna need a few things.
We're gonna need our for loops.
We're gonna need our
event handling skills.
We're gonna need conditional logic
to do things based on other things.
So we're gonna break this down or take
it step by step because that is always
the key to solving complex code
challenges is let's break it down.
Let's go step by step.
We're going to start with TODO 6 and
7 and use our for loops.
And so, we're gonna do exactly what we
talked about theoretically being able to
do earlier.
We're gonna use a for of loop to loop over
the buttons, in this case, we have two.
So we're gonna loop over our buttons and
attach an event listener to each button.
And within that event handler,
just to start out with,
we're going to try to make sure
that we display the explanation
text from our fact object in the div
called explanation on the page.
So what we want, is just the part
what we're starting out with TODO 6.
We're going to use a for
loop to attach an event handler.
And in that event handler, we're going
to make sure we add the statement
text to the appropriate div on the page.
So what I want to do is add
a listener to each of my buttons.
Conveniently, earlier,
we had captured all those
buttons in our option buttons variable.
So our option button variable,
and if we go back to,
Let me reload this file.
I'm loading this locally
from my HTML file.
If I look for my option buttons,
I see that I have this
collection of two buttons.
So this collection it's
not exactly an array, but
it is also something that is
iterable like I can do a four
let button of option buttons,
I could do let's say.
Console.log button, and it's going to
log out the button elements themselves.
So our HTML collection that our
DOM API's here of query selector or
whatever we had used get element by ID,
that's going to give us
an iterable collection of buttons.
So we can use a for
of loop to iterate over it.
So let us try to do this where
instead of logging the buttons,
we're actually adding a click
handler to each of the buttons.
Can anybody walk me through how they would
start approaching this with a for of loop?
Who'd like to take a stab at it, Paul?
>> So for, then in parentheses
button of option buttons,
>> Okay, like this.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, is there anything else that
we need to do in a for of loop?
>> Let, sorry.
>> So
the let is actually doing some work here.
Because what that's doing is essentially,
this button here,
JavaScript doesn't know what it is.
We are basically declaring it
like a little local variable.
And remember how we said yesterday
about scope that variables have scope
when they're inside of a function.
Let's say we get a new scope for
those variables.
For loops are another case
where with let and const,
we get a new kind of scope for
our variables, just as a fun fact.
Okay, and I'm just gonna add,
I'm gonna bring this curly
braces way down here because
we're going to do a bunch of
stuff inside of this loop, okay?
So we've got our for loop started,
so for lead options for
like button of option buttons, great.
And now, what do we want to do?
We want to add a click event listener.
So, how can we do that?
Paul, do you want to keep going?
>> Yes, so,
we have the button in hand that is now.
>> We can now talk about button.
>> This one, and then it will
be the second one for each loop.
>> Exactly, right?
So just like here when we had said for
left button of option buttons
console log button, the first time it
runs, it's the first button which is true,
and the second time it's the false button,
exactly.
>> So
you can just do button.addEventListener.
>> That's the method we need, okay?
And then how does
the addEventListener work again?
And look at my IDE being so helpful as
to tell me some complicated things that
aren't really actually
making any sense to me.
All right,
addEventListener takes two arguments.
The first thing we need to give it is?
>> Click.
>> Click in this case, so
the name of the event, and it's a string,
the name of the event,
and then use a comma.
>> A callback function.
>> So in parentheses E or error.
>> Yes we could say, E or
event I'll just spell it out because just
to make it even clearer for anybody, or
maybe future me who's rereading this and
doesn't remember what it is, okay?
>> And then the fat arrow.
>> Arrow.
>> And then the curly braces.
>> Curly braces.
Okay.
And now we're gonna do some stuff, and
I'm gonna move the end of our
event handler function body down
here because we're gonna do a bunch
of stuff in the event handler, okay?
So great, so now,
we've got an event listener added
to each of the option buttons.
And what I'm gonna do here before
we even do what we wanna do,
I'm just gonna do a nice little developer
trick of saying like, Heard a click.
[LAUGH] Just to make sure that
this is actually working.
So I'm gonna save my file,
go back and reload it.
And now, if my event handler is attached,
when I click a button,
we should see heard of a click.
And both of the buttons should say the
same thing, heard a click, heard a click.
So my heard a click is happening
six times here, so far.
Okay, great.
All right,
now let's actually do something useful.
I'm gonna get rid of that.
So who could walk me through
the second half of this ask here?
Which is, one second, so
we can read this better.
Within the event handler, we want to
set the text of the div in my HTML,
which is intended to
contain the explanation,
which luckily earlier we had captured
as the variable explanation.
We're going to put text inside of that.
That is the actual explanation for
our fact that we had declared earlier.
Okay, so this is what we wanna
do now inside of our function.
So who would like to walk me
through how we can do that?
Setting the text of the explanation
element to the explanation within my fact
object.
Do you want to take a stab at it?
>> Would it be explanation
=fact.explanation.textContent?
>> Okay, we're getting very close.
Let's talk about, so we have two things,
we have our explanation right now,
refers to what?
Let's scroll up in our code and
figure out what explanation is gonna be.
>> So the element.
>> That's going to be the element.
And so, the element is what's going
to have text content inside of it.
Now what about fact.explanation?
What is that going to refer to?
To the value that's
stored in that premise.
>> Exactly, it's going to be the value
of the property explanation on my fact
object, which in this case is a string,
that is the explanation text that I want.
So we just need to hook
one up to the other.
>> Explanation.textContent.
>> Beautiful.
>> =fact.explanation.
>> All right, let's give this a shot.
Now, as always, in programming,
the best way to figure out
if it's working is to try.
So let's see what happens.
So I'm gonna save my file, go back,
reload so that I get my changes.
And now,
I expect that if I click on either button,
basically the same thing is gonna happen.
We're going to see the explanation
pop up if we've done our job.
Moment of truth.
Great!
I clicked the true button and it worked.
And if I click the false button,
I just reloaded,
and if I click the false button,
it also worked.
We did it, we've now attached to
an event handler that modifies the page.
We're not totally done though because
right now, I can keep clicking these
buttons and nothing happens because
it's setting the text content again and
again to the same thing.
So really, we want a couple of
other things to be happening here.
So great, we've done our TODO number 6.
We've got our event handler.
We're doing something to the page.
Now, we can keep going and do the other
stuff we want for our quiz game to work.